It is implied that these figures created "The Diary of P." and "The A.B. Memoirs," as well as objects found in a footlocker near Bangor. These figures often greet and say goodbye to each other with the phrase "Under His Eye." One of these figures finds the phrase "nolite te bastardes carborundorum"   is a member of, for 10 points, what group of fertile women in a novel by Margaret Atwood?
ANSWER: handmaids [accept The Handmaid's Tale; prompt on women]
<Carson, Literature - World> 

The Czech engraver Wenceslaus Hollar made panoramic engravings before and after this event. This event is commemorated by a 202-foot-tall monument topped by a golden urn that, until 1830, had an inscription blaming it on the "malice of the Popish faction"; that monument was co-designed by Robert Hooke, who was appointed surveyor after this event. Charles II was informed of this event by a man who wrote of burying his cheeses during it, Samuel Pepys  . The Duke of York commanded troops that tore down buildings during this event. This event ended on Pie Corner, leading some to attribute it to God's wrath at the sin of gluttony, and supposedly began at a bakery on Pudding Lane. For 10 points, name this 1666 conflagration in England's capital.
ANSWER: Great Fire of London [or the London Fire of 1666; prompt on partial or descriptive answers]
<Bentley, History - European> 

A theorem introduced by this man gives a formula to find the radii of four mutually tangent circles. The second book of a work by this mathematician consists of a classification of algebraic curves, including his namesake "folium." This man is the inventor, and sometimes the namesake, of the field of analytic geometry. This man's three "laws of nature" were a major influence on Isaac Newton's laws of motion. An upper limit on the number of positive roots of a polynomial can be found using this mathematician's "rule of signs." In two dimensions, ordered pairs are used to represent the x- and y-coordinates of numbers in his namesake coordinate system. For 10 points, name this French mathematician, who, in a famous work of philosophy, stated "Cogito ergo sum."
ANSWER: René Descartes  
<Minarik, Science - Math>

A narrative about two of these objects and a hidden marble are used in a psychological experiment devised by Simon Baron-Cohen to assess whether children attribute false beliefs to others. Papers published in 1939 and 1940 described experiments in which subjects were asked to choose between two of these objects with different characteristics by researchers Kenneth and Mamie Clark. These objects, which are central to the "Sally-Anne task," were used in research summarized by expert witnesses in the Brown v. Board case. Social learning theory was devised based on an experiment in which children imitated adults' actions toward one of these objects. For 10 points, what kind of object did adults beat up in Albert Bandura's experiment involving a "bobo" one?
ANSWER: dolls [accept bobo dolls; prompt on toys]
<Hart, Social Science - Psychology> 

In this opera, a soft timpani roll underlies a shift from B-flat major to the mediant of G major during the sextet "Sola, sola in buio loco." This opera's final sextet, "Questo è il fin di chi fa mal"  , and Leporello recounts its title character's sexual conquests in the "Catalogue Aria." For 10 points, name this Mozart opera that ends with a statue of the commendatore dragging the title seducer to hell.
ANSWER: Don Giovanni [do not accept "Don Juan"]
<Kothari, Arts - Opera> 

This deity becomes enraged when she is reminded of a man who brought her dates but refused to sleep with her, after which she turned him into a mole. A partially-extant poem describes this deity turning a bandit woman into a waterskin. The gala-tura and the kur-jara rescue this deity after a journey in which she is repeatedly delayed by the gatekeeper Neti. This deity, who was attended by Ninshubur, was cursed with sixty diseases by Namtar. The Bull of Heaven was sent after Enkidu and Gilgamesh by this goddess, who removed one item of clothing at each of seven gates when descending to the underworld, which was ruled by her sister Ereshkigal. For 10 points, name this wife of Dumuzid or Tammuz, the Mesopotamian goddess of love and sex.
ANSWER: Ishtar [or Inanna; accept Astarte]
<Grames, RMP - Other Myth> 

The existence of these things was accidentally revealed by Alexander Butterfield. Some of these things were stored at a facility in Yorba Linda, California, and not released to the public until 2013. One rejected compromise involved making Senator John C. Stennis the only person allowed to review these things. Political cartoonists made fun of the so-called "Rose Mary Stretch," an awkward posture supposedly used to accidentally destroy parts of one of these things. That stretch resulted in an 18-and-a-half minute gap in them. The Saturday Night Massacre followed Archibald Cox's insistence on receiving these secretly-made objects. For 10 points, name these audio records of a president who resigned during the Watergate scandal.
ANSWER: Nixon tapes [or transcripts of President Richard Nixon's White House tapes; or President Richard Nixon's White House recordings; accept Watergate tapes until "Watergate" is read; prompt on partial answer]
<Bentley, History - American> 

A book by this author ends with the Wandering Jew informing the narrator that a door in his museum was made from the gate of ivory that Aeneas once passed through in Hades. That book by this writer ends with the story "The Virtuoso's Collection," and it includes a story in which Annie opens an ebony box and her infant child crushes Owen Warland's mechanical butterfly. Another of his stories ends by noting that "no hopeful verse" was carved on the tombstone of the title character's grave. This author included "The Artist of the Beautiful" in a collection named for his home, Mosses from an Old Manse, which also features a story set in Salem where the title character sees a procession in a forest. For 10 points, name this author of "Young Goodman Brown."
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
<Jose, Literature - American> 

A recent restoration of this painting revealed two spiderwebs behind the two donors in it and proved that the wood used for the hermit panel was the same as its others. This painting was rescued from an Austrian salt mine shortly before the mine was blown up by the Nazis. Equestrian portraits of men such as Philip the Good are included in a panel of this painting called The Just Judges that was stolen in 1934. The man who completed this painting called himself "second in art" to his deceased brother. When closed, this work shows grisaille statues of saints below an Annunciation scene. When opened, it reveals a panel of a large procession gathering around a lamb about to be sacrificed. For 10 points, name this master altarpiece of Jan Van Eyck.
ANSWER: Ghent Altarpiece [accept Adoration of the Mystic Lamb until "lamb" is read]
<Bentley, Arts - Painting> 

Lev Landau showed that, under certain conditions, the cyclotron motions of charged particles have this property, a fact which allows resistance to be written in terms of the von Klitzing constant. A sharp peak at 254 nanometers corresponding to 4.9 electron-volts implied this result in an experiment that fired electrons through a vapor of mercury and was run by Franck and Hertz. When deriving his law of blackbody radiation, Max Planck arbitrarily assumed that energy has this property. Einstein explained the photoelectric effect by proposing that light is a particle, and thus has this property. For 10 points, name this property where at small scales, quantities become discretized, which names a subfield of physics involving wavefunctions and randomness.
ANSWER: quantization [accept word forms indicating things are quantized or in quanta or are quantum; accept anything suggesting things are discrete or discretized until "discretized" is read]
<Wang, Science - Physics> 

One paper about this concept concludes by identifying the writer's position with Hegel, who saw this concept as a "distorted reflexion" of reality that Kant referred to this concept as a "form of inner sense" in the Transcendental Aesthetic. The A-series and B-series theories of this concept were introduced in a J. M. E. McTaggart paper titled for the "unreality" of this concept. Henri Bergson   paired this concept with "free will" in the title of a book that uses the term "duration." Theories of this concept include the "growing block," as well as a theory that holds that John F. Kennedy still exists. For 10 points, name this concept, subject of theories like presentism, that Einstein united into a manifold with space.
ANSWER: time
<Boyd, RMP - Philosophy> 

30,000 people were killed in a raid orchestrated by this monarch against a city that had recently been captured by Hayreddin Barbarossa. His ineffective New Laws prompted the Valladolid   debates. The enormous fleet for this monarch's conquest of Tunis was mostly financed with the gold ransom delivered from Atahualpa. Troops fighting against the League of Cognac for this son of Philip the Handsome and Juana the Mad pillaged monasteries while sacking Rome. This king spent his gouty final years at a monastery after abdicating. His massive inheritance included the Habsburg Netherlands. For 10 points, name this Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain who abdicated in 1556 in favor of his son, Philip II.
ANSWER: Charles V [or Charles I; or Carlos I; or Karl V; or Carlo V; prompt on Charles]
<Bentley, History - European> 

In the Goldschmidt classification, species are grouped by whether their preferred host is rock, ores, gas, or this element. This element and a more dense one "rained out" of molten material during the "catastrophe" named for it, a key step in planetary differentiation. Siderophiles are named for their preference for this element, which is said to be "telluric" if it is found on Earth as not part of an ore. This element bonded to sulfur forms galena  . Ores of this element include a specimen historically called lodestone and the reddish-brown hematite. Fool's gold, or pyrite, is an ore of this metal, which along with nickel is a major element of the Earth's core. For 10 points, name this magnetic chemical element abbreviated Fe.
ANSWER: iron [or Fe until read]
<Jose, Science - Earth Science> 

This author appended his essay On the Use of the Chorus in Tragedy to a play in which Don Manuel and Don Caesar are the title character's feuding sons. The villain of another of his plays is killed when a peasant woman named Armgart and her children delay him by pleading for clemency in front of his horses. Another of his protagonists is torn between honoring the sacrifices of Roller and Schweizer   after being banished from his home by his father, the Count. This author of The Bride of Messina wrote about the conflict between the brothers Franz and Karl Moor in one play, and another of his plays is titled for a huntsman who defies the Swiss tyrant Gessler. For 10 points, name this German playwright of The Robbers and William Tell.
ANSWER: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
<Carson, Literature - European> 

In this country's capital, thousands of coins are nailed to a stump that supposedly cures toothaches. Eyes pointing in four directions are a motif on a monument at Swayambhunath   in this country. A snake-infested floodplain that contains this country's capital was supposedly drained by the bodhisattva Manjushri, and many of its temples were built by the Newar people. The Terai Swamp in this country's south contributed to its isolation. This country became a republic in 2008 and was once ruled by the Ranas. It is home to the largest Sherpa population in the world. Its well-above-sea-level capital was devastated by a 2015 earthquake. For 10 points, name this mountainous Asian country with capital at Kathmandu.
ANSWER: Nepal [or Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal]
<Bentley, Geography - World> 

In this piece's tenth section, woodwinds repeat the pattern "quarter rest, four falling sixteenth notes, quarter rest," where the first sixteenth note is tenuto and the rest are staccato. As a joke, the viola melody in this piece's sixth section crosses directly from the fourth to the second string. Jagged, toccata-like chromatic runs in its second section depict an amateur pianist warming up. Most section titles of this piece are initials, like C. A. E., which represents its composer's wife Alice. Viola student Isabel Fitton and the stuttering Dorabella are two "friends pictured within" this piece. It may be based on "Auld Lang Syne" or "Rule Britannia." August Jaeger   inspired its section "Nimrod." For 10 points, name this orchestral piece by Edward Elgar with an unknown theme.
ANSWER: Enigma Variations [or Variations on an Original Theme; or Elgar's Opus 36]
<Magin, Arts - Music> 

The radar jamming system used by low-flying Vautour planes in Operation Focus during this war so spooked the otherwise uninvolved Soviets that Nikolai Yergorychev purged many Polish officers. In the build-up to this war, a strike killed 18 people at Al-Samu and UN Emergency Forces were ordered out of one country. One side lost 286 of its 420 MiG   was cut off from supplies by the closure of the Gulf of Aqaba. The Sinai Peninsula, Golan Heights, and Gaza Strip were captured by the victors in this conflict, a defeat for Egypt's Gamal Abdel Nasser. For 10 points, name this 1967 conflict in which Israel defeated its enemies in less than a week.
ANSWER: Six-Day War [or June War; or Third Arab-Israeli War; or Milhemet Sheshet HaYamim]
<Bentley, History - World> 

A defect in one enzyme in this pathway has a severe "Beppu" variant and causes echinocytes to appear on a peripheral smear. An enzyme that catalyzes the start of this pathway has three subtypes referred to as "low K-sub-m" isozymes for their increased affinity to their substrate, and also a fourth isozyme that is found only in the liver. Another enzyme in this pathway performs an aldol cleavage to form the intermediate DHAP. This pathway begins with substrate-level phosphorylation carried out by hexokinase and ends with two three-carbon molecules that are eventually converted into acetyl-CoA. For 10 points, name this first step of cellular respiration that cleaves glucose to create two pyruvate molecules.
ANSWER: glycolysis [or Embden–Meyerhof–Parnas pathway; or Entner–Doudoroff pathway; prompt on cellular respiration]
<Kalathiveetil, Science - Biology> 

In the first of these poems, the speaker asks that the addressee "like adamant draw mine iron heart." In a poem from this collection, the speaker claims to be made of "elements and an angelic sprite," which are "betray'd to endless night," and calls himself "a little world made cunningly." Another of these poems declares that the speaker will never be "chaste, except you ravish me" and implores "Break, blow, burn, and make me new." This collection includes a poem that calls the addressee "slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men," as well as a poem beginning "Batter my heart, three-person'd God." For 10 points, name these nineteen religious poems, including "Death, Be Not Proud," written by John Donne.
ANSWER: Holy Sonnets [or Divine Meditations; or Divine Sonnets; prompt on sonnets by John Donne]
<Bollinger, Literature - British> 

Description acceptable. In advance of this event, a leader asked his cousin to cover himself in a green cloak and sleep in his bed. Historians identify the Axumite king Armah with a man involved in the so-called "first" version of this event, Ashama ibn Abjar, who sheltered several sahaba. A place of worship at Quba was founded during this event, in which two men stopped and prayed on Friday in the first instance of jumu'ah. The person who undertook this event ended up in Yathrib, which was renamed shortly afterward, and carried it out with Abu Bakr. This event, whose Julian date is April 19, 622 AD, marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar. For 10 points, name this flight of the prophet from one of Islam's holy cities to another.
ANSWER: Hijrah [or Hegirah; accept Second Hijrah; accept answers indicating Muhammad's flight from Mecca or Muhammad's flight to Medina or Muhammad's flight to Yathrib until Yathrib is read; do not accept or prompt on "hajj"]
<Alston, RMP - Other Religion> 

The NINCDS-ADRDA criteria are used to diagnose this disease. The first person diagnosed with this disease was a woman named "Auguste D." Screens for this disease led to the discovery of presenilins, the catalytic subunits of gamma-secretase. The drug donepezil, sold under the brand name Aricept, is used to treat symptoms of this disease. Sufferers of this disease can exhibit neurofibrillary tangles due to hyper-phosphorylation of tau proteins. This disease can be caused by a mutation in the APP protein, which leads to the buildup of plaques of amyloid beta. This disease causes progressive cognitive impairment, shown by language and memory problems. For 10 points, name this neurodegenerative disease, the most common cause of dementia.
ANSWER: Alzheimer's disease [prompt on dementia until read]
<Ramaswami, Science - Biology> 
